# P.22
You are not yourself
While this is posed as sounding incredibly stupid, you are not you is one of the foundations of our being. If I asked you right now to stop your heart from beating for a second using only your own body and nothing externally could you do it? Perhaps you said yes, by plunging your hand into your chest like a madman, but that appears to be more of a personal issue than what I am getting at. What I mean to say is that we are not fully tapped into our own bodies, we are a pilot and as a pilot we are inside of the machine. A pilot can not change the temperature of the wings of a plane by simply thinking it, they must take direct action using what they can. Suffice it to say that we scramble for control over ourselves daily. We attempt to take a stance of control in places where we have very little, including in our own bodies, anyone who has partook in a staring contest, or has tried to keep up a new years resolution has learned this the hard way. Our own bodies sabotage us in a multitude of ways, but it is important to note why, and how, and how to subvert it if possible. Your brain more or less has hijacked your body, and your the pilot of it, you're still in control, but minorly if the hijacker asks you to raise your hand at the threat of death you most likely would, same with the brain, if it sends you a pain signal after placing your hand upon a hot stove you may lift your hand. But sometimes our brains judgements do not line up with reality, this is as our brains have developed over millions of years to function in a more primitive way of life, where a rustle in the bushes means survival or death. This is why we fear things that are perfectly safe, our brain is making brash judgement calls that we are not a part of, and then uses these to basically tell us harshly what to do, not force, but to suggest almost the point of force. Now we as pilots, can put ourselves into these positions purposefully, but with some trepidation from the brain, as it appears, we doubt ourselves, yet we only know one well, the other is more of a shadow. Sadly you, and your shadow, cannot simply talk, you cannot simply ask out loud for your heart to stop beating and have that happen, if you are running a race and feel pain you cannot simply say “Hey, im not going to die you doofus, ease off on the pain signals.” I wish that it were the case as human performance would be far greater, and suffering far less. Now comes the fun part, the actual science of this. The brain is of course made up of many regions, each distinct in processing but as we have no real idea where consciousness originates we have to simply instead take a whole brain/body look at the system as a brief summation of consciousness, although it is quite crude. Nonetheless my favorite example of how you sabotage you is through Dopamine. Dopamine is a chemical that has risen to fame over the last few years due to its presence as the “Reward” hormone, although truly it does more than that. Nonetheless given how well known it is as a pleasure and reward hormone I will use that one particular use case as the basis for this example. This hormone is released when we do activities like scrolling youtube, social media, eating a greasy hamburger, and have sex. More or less it is the chemical of sin, this hormone incentivises you to perform quick hasty brash decisions that are selfish and quite rudimentary in the thought process. It is the chemical that tells you that going to the gym sucks and binge watching your favorite show is great. It's the one that tells you to cheat on your wife, and the one that tells you to keep scrolling social media instead of doing schoolwork. Your brain was created for primitive survival and replication, and as such it was created to tell you that eating fruits and sugars are amazing, as they are easy for your body to process and convert to energy, so you are rewarded, if you have sex and spread your genetics it rewards you, regardless of the steps to get to that point. If you run to avoid a predator and live it rewards you for running. It has built itself around basic survival, which has later had to adapt slightly to social settings where working and hunting as a pack and sharing food was beneficial and to work with that, creating positive social behaviours in some, an extrovert like effect, and introverts, both feasible ways of survival, and as such both prevalent in our society today.
